a female Varro's eagle is on patrol
[Music]
she's a fussy eater a pygmy owl won't do
her diet is so specialized she needs a
partner to help capture it
they're searching for a prey whose
nearest living relative is the African
elephant the tusks they're a giveaway a
rock hyrax they feed on bushes on the
cliff face safe from most predators but
these Eagles use a tactic rarely seen in
the bird world they go to work as a team
it won't be easy
fan tailed Ravens don't like eagles in
their airspace
this is a test of aerobatic skills a
nesting Kestrel doesn't want the Eagles
around either
[Music]
the Eagle split up the female hugs the
cliff edge
while the mayor soars in front of the
Sun hiding in the blinding light but the
hyrax have a unique blue tinted retina
that acts like sunglasses allowing them
to stare directly back they don't let
the male eagle out of their sight
but the mail was merely a decoy
his partner has already made the kill by
working together they've captured their
favorite meal
to feed themselves and a hungry chick
the pair must kill over ten hyrax a week
one that involves a very talented pod of
dolphins
they are closely watched by a flock of
great egrets who have become experts on
the Dolphins behavior
[Music]
they RQ is the moment a dolphin pops to
the surface and checking the position of
the nearest mud Bank the egrets are
poised and ready for action
then it happens the Dolphins drive the
fistula schewe
as the fish flounder the Dolphins scoop
him up
[Applause]
but the egrets also Pilon
this is the only place in the world
where dolphins strand feed like this and
the local birds have learned to make the
most of it
strangely the Dolphins always use their
right sides to push ashore
the young dolphins pick up this
technique from their parents as do the
egrets that follow them
mamie no longer fish for themselves and
totally rely upon the dolphins castoffs
the egrets are living proof of birds
extraordinary ability to adapt to the
opportunities on alpha so here's the
problem the elephant's need to be able
to pull the table closer to gain access
to the sunflower seeds and they need the
rope to do that but if only one of them
pulls the rope the table doesn't move
and they both go hungry so can two
elephants figure out they need to work
together to solve a brand new problem
[Music]
they don't get it first time out that's
for sure but therefore kilogram brains
may just be at work the first thing I
think that they learn and there has to
be some learning involved in this is a
task they've never experienced before
the first thing is that they've learned
that their partner needs to be there and
I think in some ways they've learned not
only does their partner need to be there
but their partner needs to be doing
something
[Music]
after only three attempts the smartest
elephants solve the puzzle but Josh
wants to know if they understand the
concept behind it so he releases one
elephant before the other to see if
it'll wait for its partner
[Music]
after eight years of working with
elephants Josh had a hunch that was
going to happen and now he's got proof
what you're seeing is that the elephants
are thinking about cooperation and that
actually demonstrates how smart and how
well adapted these animals are it's
incredible to prove that animals are
smart enough to cooperate
marine iguanas takin too much salt with
their food but with the help of special
glands they sneeze it out
[Music]
they also welcome these resourceful
visitors
[Music]
sally lightfoot crabs like to groom them
for algae parasites and dead skin
[Music]
lava lizards far smaller reptilian
relatives have found their own ingenious
ways to get by on this fierce shoreline
[Music]
they enjoy a special relationship with
the sea lions the lizard's rhythm of
flies which can be a ticklish nuisance
this sea lion accepts these predatory
lizards both benefit
survival depends on seizing every
opportunity in this volcanic wasteland a
6-ton orcas slaps its tail with awesome
destructive power
under the water tail slaps are used to
stun the herring
some fish come too quickly and escape
back to the safety of the shore but most
are picked off by the orcas one by one
soon the water glitters and fish scales
as the orcas methodically consume the
ball of fish
by breaking up the herring into a
smaller show the orcas have done the
humpbacks a favor
turning the usual relationship between
the animals on its head
[Music]
everywhere else on earth orcas or the
humpbacks biggest enemy but here the
humpbacks cash in on the colossal fish
supper
[Music]
on the humpbacks aren't the only ones to
gatecrash the August party
massive fin whales that's what our 3,000
herring in a single gulp
[Music]
deadly enemies feed side-by-side
a unique scene only possible here
because of the warmth of the Gulf Stream
[Music]